# 1 About The Project #  
Sparkify wants to analyze the data on songs and user activity collected on their new music streaming app.  
The data resides in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app and a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.  
The purpose is to create a Postgres database schema and ETL pipeline to optimize queries on song play analysis.  

# 2 Getting Started #  
- Open a terminal via Jupyter Notebook  
- Use "python create_tables.py" to create tables  
- Use "python etl.py" to load the data, clean the date, and insert the data to the tables  

# 3 About The Data #  
## 3.1 Song Dataset ##  
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the "Million Song Dataset". Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the arist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are file paths to two files in this dataset.  
"song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json"  
"song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json"  
And below is an example of what a single song file, TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json, looks like.  
{"num_songs": 1, "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7", "artist_latitude": null, "artist_longitude": null, "artist_location": "", "artist_name": "Line Renaud", "song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1", "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff", "duration": 152.92036, "year": 0}   

## 3.2 Log Dataset ##  
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this "event simulator" based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.  
The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.  
"log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json"  
"log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json"  

## 3.3 Data repo ##  
### 3.3.1 Song Dataset ### 
"data/song_data/"  
### 3.3.2 ### 
"data/log_data/"

## 3.4 Load Data ##  
If you would like to look at the JSON data within log_data files, you will need to create a pandas dataframe to read the data. Remember to first import JSON and pandas libraries.  
df = pd.read_json(filepath, lines=True)  
For example,   
df = pd.read_json('data/log_data/2018/11/2018-11-01-events.json', lines=True) would read the data file 2018-11-01-events.json.  

# 4 Schema and ETL #  
## 4.1 Schema ##  
Use star schema to create these tables and link them together.  
## 4.2 ETL ##  
Extract the necessary columns from the datasets and change the data types as well as creating new columns. And load the values to the tables.  

# 5 SQL Queries #
Use the following SQL queries to start.
- "SELECT * FROM artists LIMIT 5;"  
- "SELECT * FROM time LIMIT 5;"  
- ...
